And welcome back it's time to finally implement some code splitting.
Let's have a look at our files.
In order to use code splitting We need to learn a new syntax although not really a new syntax.
But it's this import keyword.
Usually it's at the very top of the files with create re-act app.
If we put the import anywhere inside of our code so not at the top of the file it's going to know that
this NIE this is a dynamic import and what that means is that I'll only import it when that piece of
code is requested and this happens underneath the hood with what path.
So by using import we automatically tell it to code split which is super super nice this time around.
Let's go to Doug.
Yes.
And to get started with code splitting now in here in Brender with code splitting.
Let's comment this out.
We want something different with code splitting we can ideally do this if this data state route it calls
page 1.
We're going to return page 1 on route change equals this Daut on route change.
All right.
That doesn't look any different and that's because it's the exact same but because this is the default
page.
That's fine.
The next part is different.
We can say else
return this dot state DOT component on road change vehicles to start pro-change Holy Moly what just
happened.
Is this even allowed.
I'm going to come back to this but for now keep in mind that all we're doing is saying just Rander page
one if the route is anything but Page 1 then we need to do some sort of funny business here.
And let me close off this.
Now first of all we see that there is a state DOT component where is that coming from.
Well we create it.
We say that now we have a state called component and this component right now will render ph 2 or Page
3 for us and for now we could just leave it as an empty string because we haven't really loaded page
2 or pastry yet.
Now on row change this is where we do something a little bit different with no code splitting.
We just had this but with code splitting
we start to use this dynamic import.
I was telling you about we're going to have the same logic if route equals page 1 van this thought set
state well just have route equal to repped because for Page 1 we just want to keep everything the same
just like we had it before for the other two though which we're going to dynamically import.
We're going to have a route whoops route calls ph to and right here because we won't have ph too accessible
to us because we're not going to be loading it as a matter of fact we're not going to import any of
these.
We're going to import them here dynamically when we actually get to this line of javascript as our app
is running in our browser.
That's when we want to import them or load them.
We're going to say import
and by the way this only works because of wet pack and the way things are set up.
If you try to do this in just plain old javascript it will throw an error because they don't understand
what you're trying to do.
We're going to say well we're going to load the components page to.
So you see that we changed from importing here to importing down here.
And this is asynchronous.
That means it returns a promise.
So we can use the dot then to say what's this page has been import it has been downloaded.
Then we receive the page to component and with this received page to component we can now set this dot
set state to have the route of route because it's just page 2 but also update the component state which
we have up here to equal page to.
So now we have access to the page to component through the start state.
I know it looks a little bit weird but it's just something you have to get used to.
By the way this could also be null.
But for now empty string is fine.
We're not going to worry too much about it.
Now we have a page too accessible to us because if the route is page two we're going to import and download
the pasted component then we're going to receive that component and update it to our current state now
down here.
This makes sense right.
We're simply saying that we're accessing this dot state DOT component and we're able to do this funny
syntax that uses GSX because this dot state component is a Riak component that is page to.
I know when people see this first they really have a hard time with it.
I'll show you how you can actually make it cleaner later on.
But I want to really show you this point that we're just rendering this component.
Let's finish this off.
Let's create another LCF statement and this time around I'm just going to copy and paste here.
And we'll do page 3 and this is going to end for page 3.
We're going to get the pastry component and load it up here.
Now is this going to work.
Well let's see I'm not getting any errors here.
If I go back to the browser and exit.
Actually let's keep the console on and I click.
I get an error and we get to fail to execute create aliment on document.
That's a really really confusing error isn't it.
Well let's console law here to see what happens what is actually going on what is page 2.
Is it a component like I said.
I mean it should be right.
Well let's to console the log page to going to save click on page 2 and all right I'm getting these
errors.
But you see over here I'm logging out the component but you see that it looks kind of weird.
The component is actually under the default property and this is where our page lies.
This is a little godchild that you'll just have to get used to but the way you actually access the component
to be able to access it as this state component and react is to just say Dot default and then have here
Dot default.
Now let's give it a try.
Go back at page to 0 and I still get an error because we need to remove the first line which used the
no code splitting We have to just have this and our route change.
So let me save that go back page to look at that.
Everything is working.
But are we actually code splitting.
Do we just implement code splitting.
Well let's check it out.
I'm going to go to the Network tab.
I'm going to clear this and I'm going to refresh.
All right.
So nothing's changed so far.
Let me make this a little bit bigger.
We see the bundled js file.
When I click on page 2
I see this at the bottom.
Let me try that again.
I'm going to refresh again.
And we see the Bondel.
I'm going to clear this and see what happens when I click on page 2.
I get one done Choctaws Jesus and if I click on three I get zero Dutch's.
J.S. That's pretty cool.
And we see over here if we click on it we have our chunk with a bunch of work back but we also see that
in this file we have the page to component.
We've just implemented code splitting.
If we actually go back now and go back to page to page 1 it's not going to reload again because they've
already loaded the scripts but otherwise when we load up our initial app page to page 3 component are
not part of this bundle database file.
How cool is that.
We've just implemented code splitting on our own and quite simple.
It makes a lot of sense.
We're simply just removing the imports from the top and importing them only when we need them only when
the user clicks on a route of page to very very neat.
Now there's one thing that may have caught your eye.
Let me show you something.
I'm going to close this and run NPM run build.
And what this does is create reactivate creates a built folder ready for production optimized for you
so that you can put it up online for people to visit.
You can see over here that it actually shows you the file sizes after it which by the way that's something
we're going to talk about.
And the last part of the performance section we see that we have a main dodge us that has the javascript.
We have the main CSSA file but then we also have these two things the zero chunk and the one chunk and
wetback builds is automatically for you based on where he sees the imports.
So we were able to actually take off this much bytes or data from our main file because if a user never
visits Pashtoon pastry we don't need to send that javascript their way.
Very very cool.
Now that was code splitting but there's actually a better way of doing it.
And in the next video I'm going to show you how I'll see that one.
But by.